📖 CAEP: Machine health checking a.k.a node auto repair proposal (#1684)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/proposals/20191030-machine-health-checking.md

    - [Risks and Mitigations](#risks-and-mitigations)
  - [Design Details](#design-details)
    - [Test Plan](#test-plan)
    - [Graduation Criteria](#graduation-criteria)
      - [Examples](#examples)
        - [Alpha -> Beta Graduation](#alpha---beta-graduation)
        - [Beta -> GA Graduation](#beta---ga-graduation)
        - [Removing a deprecated flag](#removing-a-deprecated-flag)
    - [Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy](#upgrade--downgrade-strategy)
    - [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy)
  - [Implementation History](#implementation-history)
  - [Drawbacks [optional]](#drawbacks-optional)
  - [Alternatives [optional]](#alternatives-optional)
  - [Infrastructure Needed [optional]](#infrastructure-needed-optional)

## Glossary
Refer to the [Cluster API Book Glossary](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/glossary.html).

## Summary
Enable opt in automated health checking and remediation of unhealthy nodes backed by machines.

## Motivation
- Reduce administrative overhead to run a cluster.
- Ability to respond to failures of machines and keep the cluster nodes healthy.

### Goals

> - Enable automated remediation for pools of machines/nodes (e.g a machineSet)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enable automated remediation for groups of machines/nodes (e.g a machineSet)
```

Let's try to avoid the use of the word pools to avoid confusion with the MachinePool proposal

- The referenced node meets the unhealthy node conditions criteria defined.
- The Machine has no nodeRef.
- The Machine has a nodeRef but the referenced node is not found.
- The Machine is in phase "Failed", It has `ErrorMessage`/`ErrorReason` set.

If any of those criteria are met for longer than the given timeouts and the `maxUnhealthy` threshold has not been reached yet, remediation is triggered.

Timeouts:
- For the node conditions the time outs are defined by the admin.
- For a machine with no nodeRef an opinionated value could be assumed e.g 10 min.
- For a node notFound or a failed machine, the machine is considerable unrecoverable, remediation can be triggered right away if `maxUnhealthy` is not reached.

### Remediation:
- A deletion request for the machine is sent to the API server.
- The controller owning that `Machine`, e.g machineSet reconciles towards the expected number of replicas and start the process to bring up a new `Machine`.
- The machine controller drains the node.
- The machine controller and the provider implementation delete the cloud instance.
- The machine controller removes the finalizer for the `Machine` resource.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

> - As a user of a Workload Cluster I only care about my apps availability so I want my cluster infrastructure to be self healing and the nodes to be remediated transparently in the case of failures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- As a user of a Workload Cluster, I only care about my app's availability, so I want my cluster infrastructure to be self-healing and the nodes to be remediated transparently in the case of failures.
```

#### Story 2

> - As an operator of a Management Cluster I want my machines to be self-healing and to be recreated resulting in a new healthy node in the case of matching my unhealthy criteria.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- As an operator of a Management Cluster, I want my machines to be self-healing and to be recreated, resulting in a new healthy node in the case of matching my unhealthy criteria.
```

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

#### MachineHealthCheck CRD:
- Enable watching a group of machines (based on a label selector).
- Enable defining an unhealthy node criteria (based on a list of node conditions).
- Enable setting a threshold of unhealthy nodes. If the current number is at or above this threshold no further remediation will take place. This can be expressed as an int or as a percentage of the total targets in the pool.

E.g:

> - I want my worker machines to be remediated when the backed node has `ready=false` or `ready=Unknown` condition for more than 5m.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- I want a machine to be remediated when its associated node has `ready=false` or `ready=Unknown` condition for more than 5m.
```

> - I want remediation to temporary short-circuit if the 40% or more of the targets of this pool are unhealthy at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- I want to disable auto-remediation if 40% or more of the matching machines are unhealthy.
```

```yaml

> apiVersion: healthchecking.cluster-api.io/v1alpha3

Reviewer 2: I think @timothysc wants us to try to move toward a single API group for everything going forward: cluster.x-k8s.io.

  maxUnhealthy: "40%"
status:
  currentHealthy: 5
  expectedMachines: 5
```

#### MachineHealthCheck controller:
Watch:
- Watch machineHealthCheck resources
- Watch machines and nodes with an event handler e.g controller runtime `EnqueueRequestsFromMapFunc` which returns machineHealthCheck resources.

Reconcile:
- Fetch all the machines targeted by the MachineHealthCheck and operate over machine/node targets. E.g:
```
type target struct {
  Machine capi.Machine
  Node    *corev1.Node
  MHC     capi.MachineHealthCheck
}
```

- Calculate the number of unhealthy targets.
- Compare current number against `maxUnhealthy` threshold and temporary short circuits remediation if the threshold is met.
- Trigger remediation for unhealthy targets i.e request machines for deletion.

Out of band:
- The owning controller e.g machineSet controller reconciles to meet number of replicas and start the process to bring up a new machine/node.
- The machine controller drains the unhealthy node.
- The machine controller provider deletes the instance.
- The machine controller deletes the machine.

![Machine health check](./images/machine-health-check/mhc.svg)

### Risks and Mitigations

## Alternatives

> Considered to bake this functionality into machineSets. This was discarded as different controllers than a machineSet could be owning the targeted machines. For those cases as a user you still want to benefit from automated node remediation.

Reviewer 2: (Overall comment for the entire document) would you please break long lines/paragraphs at ~ 100 characters per line? Thanks!

Considered allowing to target machineSets instead of using a label selector. This was discarded because of the reason above. Also there might be upper level controllers doing things that the MHC does not need to account for, e.g machineDeployment flipping machineSets for a rolling update. Therefore considering machines and label selectors as the fundamental operational entity results in a good and convenient level of flexibility and decoupling from other controllers.

> Considered a more strict short-circuiting mechanisim decoupled from the machine health checker i.e machine disruption budget analogous to pod disruption budget. This was discarded because it added an unjustified level of complexity and additional API resources. Instead we opt for a simpler approach and will consider more concrete feature requests that requires additional complexity based on real use feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Considered a more strict short-circuiting mechanism decoupled from the machine health checker i.e machine disruption budget analogous to pod disruption budget. This was discarded because it added an unjustified level of complexity and additional API resources. Instead we opt for a simpler approach and will consider more concrete feature requests that requires additional complexity based on real use feedback.
```

## Upgrade Strategy

> This is an opt in feature supported by a new CRD and controller so no particular needs to handle upgrades for existing clusters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an opt in feature supported by a new CRD and controller so there is no need to handle upgrades for existing clusters. 
```

## Additional Details

### Test Plan [optional]
Extensive unit testing for all the cases supported when remediating.

e2e testing as part of the cluster-api e2e test suite.

> For failing early testing we could consider a test suite leveraging kubemark as a provider to simulate healthy/unhealthy nodes in a cloud agnostic manner without the need to bring up a real instance.

Reviewer: @thebsdbox had built a fake provider for testing recently, we could potentially leverage that for this type of testing.

### Non-Goals/Future Work
- Recording long-term stable history of all health-check failures or remediations.

- Providing a mechanisim to guarantee that application quorum for N members is maintained at any time.

## Proposal
The machine health checker (MHC) does a best effort to keep nodes healthy in the cluster, by removing machines backing unhealthy Nodes.

It provides a short-circuit mechanism and limits remediation when the `maxUnhealthy` threshold is reached for a targeted group of machines. This is similar to what the node life cycle controller does for reducing the eviction rate as nodes become unhealthy in a given zone. E.g a large number of nodes in a single zone are down due to a networking issue.

The machine health checker is an integration point between node problem detection tooling expresed as node conditions and remediation to achieve a node auto repairing feature.

### Unhealthy criteria:
A machine is unhealthy when:

- The referenced node meets the unhealthy node conditions criteria defined.
- The Machine has no nodeRef.
- The Machine has a nodeRef but the referenced node is not found.
- The Machine is in phase "Failed", It has `ErrorMessage`/`ErrorReason` set.

> If any of those criteria are met for longer than the given timeouts and the `maxUnhealthy` threshold has not been reached yet, remediation is triggered.

Reviewer 3: It is not clear whether having more than `maxUnhealthy` nodes results in either limiting remediation to `maxUnhealthy` nodes or stopping remediation entirely.

If I define "node is older than 30 days" as an unhealthy node condition criterion, it is likely for the threshold to be exceeded. In that case, the desired behavior would be to rate-limit remediation.

Author: `maxUnhealthy` will completely short-circuit remediation. I'm totally on-board for rate-limiting but unless there're strong objections I'd prefer to keep this proposal intentionally simple and follow up with a RFE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If any of those criteria are met for longer than the given timeouts and the `maxUnhealthy` threshold has not been reached yet, remediation is triggered. If more than `maxUnhealthy` Machines are unhealthy then none will be remediated. 
```

For the node conditions the time outs are defined by the admin. For the other cases opinionated values can be assumed.
For a machine with no nodeRef an opinionated value could be assumed e.g 10 min.
For a node notFound or a failed machine, the machine is considerable unrecoverable, remediation can be triggered right away.

### Remediation:

> - A deletion request for the machine is sent to the API server.

Reviewer 3: Should this not allow for a `maxSurge` like the RollingUpdate MachineDeploymentStrategyType?

If remediation does not use or coordinate with the MachineDeployment, then a concurrent RollingUpdate and remediation could end up removing more nodes than the application can tolerate.

Reviewer 3: To expand on this, I worry that cluster-api is walking into a failed design. If there are numerous subsystems each trying to drain and/or delete nodes independently from each other, it is likely that they will occasionally overstress applications, causing databases to drop below quorum and the like.

There should be one controller responsible for doing rolling updates of nodes. Other subsystems could then independently nominate/mark nodes for the rolling update controller to get rid of.

Author: This is a good point. This proposal is actually trying to respect the right boundaries/responsibilities between controllers and using the right consumable semantics that allow composability to manipulate machine resources and signal other controllers.
The MHC is just nominating a machine for deletion by signalling the api server a desire for a machine resource to be deleted; this could also be requested anytime by e.g a user. As soon as the deletionTimestamp is set any watcher can react as they see fit.
The replicas reconciliation is so delegated to where it belongs, the controller owning the machine e.g machineDeployment, machineSet, other...
The actual deletion process is so delegated to where it belongs, the machine controller, and this is the layer where the application disruption toleration must be enforced via draining and PDB.

Reviewer 3: It is not clear to me that this mechanism would respect the `maxSurge` and `maxUnavailable` settings of the machineDeployment. I believe the MDC should use a mechanism that respects those settings, especially if the machine has workloads on it that may still be functioning.

This might be more of a machineDeployment/machineSet issue, but I can see a distinction between requesting voluntary and involuntary eviction of workloads. Deletion seems like it would tend towards the involuntary side of things.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The MDC requests deletion of the machine by placing a `cluster.k8s.io/delete-machine` annotation on it.
```

Author: There's no such annotation. The process is the same as for any other entity signalling a deletion desire. The machine health check sends a request to the API server i.e `client.delete()`. Everything else happens out of band:
- The machine is give a deletionTimestamp.
- Any watcher can adjust based on the deletionTimestamp (usually by filtering)
- The machine controller sees the deletionTimestamp and enforces workloads availability policy by draining and pod pdb.
- The machine controller removes the machine finalizer.
- The api server removes the machine object from etcd.
You can also still set the maxUnhealthy machine health checker field to short circuit and to be less tolerant than the deployment maxUnhealthy.

Reviewer 3: There is such an annotation, at https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/blob/aa3d2c200147e18e1bea289b428037d0c91bcda0/controllers/machineset_delete_policy.go#L36

Author: Ah got you, that's for then machineSet to prioritise deletion during a scale down operation. A machine with a deletionTimestamp won't even make it to the list of machines being prioritised, It will be filtered out and dismissed when reconciling towards expected number of replicas

### Non-Goals/Future Work
- Record long-term stable history of all health-check failures or remediations.
- Provide a mechanisim to guarantee that application quorum for N members is maintained at any time.

## Proposal
The machine health checker (MHC) does a best effort to keep nodes healthy in the cluster, by removing machines backing unhealthy Nodes.

It provides a short-circuit mechanism and limits remediation when the `maxUnhealthy` threshold is reached for a targeted group of machines.
This is similar to what the node life cycle controller does for reducing the eviction rate as nodes become unhealthy in a given zone. E.g a large number of nodes in a single zone are down due to a networking issue.

The machine health checker is an integration point between node problem detection tooling expresed as node conditions and remediation to achieve a node auto repairing feature.

### Unhealthy criteria:
A machine is unhealthy when:
- The referenced node meets the unhealthy node conditions criteria defined.
- The Machine has no nodeRef.
- The Machine has a nodeRef but the referenced node is not found.

> - The Machine is in phase "Failed", It has `ErrorMessage`/`ErrorReason` set.

Reviewer 4: This involves making the 'phase' an api.  I'm against using this information for any automated system.

Firstly, if the host is already a node, then we'll alert on the node's condition.  If the host never became a node, we're already looking for machines without nodeRef.

Author: updated

### Remediation:
- A deletion request for the machine is sent to the API server.
- The controller owning that `Machine`, e.g machineSet reconciles towards the expected number of replicas and start the process to bring up a new `Machine`.
- The machine controller drains the node.
- The machine controller and the provider implementation delete the cloud instance.
- The machine controller removes the finalizer for the `Machine` resource.

### User Stories

#### Story 1
- As a user of a Workload Cluster, I only care about my app's availability, so I want my cluster infrastructure to be self-healing and the nodes to be remediated transparently in the case of failures.

#### Story 2
As an operator of a Management Cluster, I want my machines to be self-healing and to be recreated, resulting in a new healthy node in the case of matching my unhealthy criteria.

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

#### MachineHealthCheck CRD:
- Enable watching a group of machines (based on a label selector).
- Enable defining an unhealthy node criteria (based on a list of node conditions).

> - Enable setting a threshold of unhealthy nodes. If the current number is at or above this threshold no further remediation will take place. This can be expressed as an int or as a percentage of the total targets in the pool.

Reviewer 4: This seems like it could easily be misconfigured.  We should look at the total number of unhealthy nodes, not just the nodes in the 'target pool'.  Also, we're watching a group of machines, not a group of nodes.  Also, it's unclear what should happen if a node/machine is covered in multiple 'groups of machines' mentioned above.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I agree here. I would expect users to likely have groups of multiple MachineDeployments and to leverage those as pools of Nodes with different scheduling requirements (GPU availability, public/private app, etc), and as such I would expect to be able to define pertinent health checks against each of these separately.

Reviewer 4: What I'm talking about is a cluster-wide view of unhealthy nodes rather than a view of just a subset of the nodes when making the determination of whether or not to remediate problematic nodes.

Also, it's still unclear what should happen if a node is in multiple groups.

Reviewer: > What I'm talking about is a cluster-wide view of unhealthy nodes rather than a view of just a subset of the nodes when making the determination of whether or not to remediate problematic nodes.

Yes, I understand that. I'm saying that for non-trivial use cases (i.e. one MachineDeployment for all worker nodes) I think this is not the view that we care about. We care more about the interruption of the pool of nodes that are serving individual scheduling concerns rather than the full set of nodes in the cluster.

I suspect this is something that we will need to make sure has plenty of clear documentation around, though.

> Also, it's still unclear what should happen if a node is in multiple groups.

This is probably something that should be clarified.

Author: >Also, it's still unclear what should happen if a node is in multiple groups.

A node that happens to be covered by more than one MHC is liable to be remediated by any of them satisfying the requirements.

Later on we could discuss things like rejecting multiple groups, rate limiting instead of fully short circuiting, may be add zone awareness and cluster wide view, etc. but I'd prefer to keep this proposal simple and follow up with RFEs as we start gathering feedback based on an initial tangible implementation.

E.g:
- I want a machine to be remediated when its associated node has `ready=false` or `ready=Unknown` condition for more than 5m.
- I want to disable auto-remediation if 40% or more of the matching machines are unhealthy.

```yaml
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1alpha3
kind: MachineHealthCheck
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: machine-api
spec:
  selector:

>     matchLabels:

Reviewer 4: Above it says we're looking at machine labels, but the 'role' label seems to be specific to a node.  Is this intended to match a machine object's labels?

Author: This is an arbitrary label that matches a group of machines

        - [Beta -> GA Graduation](#beta---ga-graduation)
        - [Removing a deprecated flag](#removing-a-deprecated-flag)
    - [Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy](#upgrade--downgrade-strategy)
    - [Version Skew Strategy](#version-skew-strategy)
  - [Implementation History](#implementation-history)
  - [Drawbacks [optional]](#drawbacks-optional)
  - [Alternatives [optional]](#alternatives-optional)
  - [Infrastructure Needed [optional]](#infrastructure-needed-optional)

## Glossary

Refer to the [Cluster API Book Glossary](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/glossary.html).

## Summary

Enable opt in automated health checking and remediation of unhealthy nodes backed by machines.

## Motivation

- Reduce administrative overhead to run a cluster.

- Ability to respond to failures of machines and keep the cluster nodes healthy.

### Goals

- Enable automated remediation for pools of machines/nodes

- Allow to define different unhealthy criterias based on node conditions for different pools.

- Providing administrator-defined short-circuiting of automated remediation when multiple nodes are unhealthy at the same time.

> ### Non-Goals/Future Work

Reviewer 5: This only covers worker nodes? Might be good to add control plane remediation as non-goal if that is the intent

Reviewer: I think this should apply fine to the control plane proposal (assuming that one defines the remediation threshold as a small percentage or number).

Author: This covers any arbitrary group of machines/nodes as a user you target in your CRD definition. Whereas Jason statement above is true, notice that:
- This not meant to provide strong guarantees that application quorum for N members is maintained at any time. This does not know about the app layer, that can be handled in conjunction with PDB to block deletion on drain or other mechanisms.
- This prevents farther remediation from happening when a threshold of unhealthy machines is reached, but it does not prevent the machines from becoming unhealthy in the first place, involuntary disruptions will happen nevertheless.

I added a non-goal to clarify this point.

- Recording long-term stable history of all health-check failures or remediations.

## Proposal

The machine health checker (MHC) does a best effort to keep nodes healthy in the cluster.

It provides a short-circuit mechanism and limits remediation when `maxUnhealthy` threshold is reached for a targeted pool. This is similar to what the node life cycle controller does for reducing the eviction rate as nodes goes unhealthy in a given zone. E.g a large number of nodes in a single zone are down because it's most likely a networking issue.

The machine health checker is an integration point between node problem detection tooling expresed as node conditions and remediation to achieve a node auto repairing feature.

### Unhealthy criteria:
A machine/node target is unhealthy when:

- The node meets the unhealthy node conditions criteria defined.

> - The Machine has no nodeRef.

Author: let's follow up discussion in https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/pull/1684/files#r343205112

- The Machine has nodeRef but node is not found.
- The Machine is in phase "Failed".

> If any of those criterias are met for longer than given timeouts, remediation is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any of those criteria are met for longer than the given timeouts, remediation is triggered.
```

> For the node conditions the time outs are defined by the admin. For the other cases opinionated values can be assumed.

Reviewer: Is the admin here a Management Cluster admin or a Workload Cluster admin?

Reviewer: Are these opinionated values meant to be hardcoded defaults? Or is this intended to provide some type of a fallback if the user doesn't define those values?

Author: I'd assumed hardcoded values unless we think there's a good reason to allow them to be tweakable

Reviewer: I'm good with that approach, we can always expose additional configuration of those values as we see fit.

> For a machine with no nodeRef an opinionated value could be assumed e.g 10 min.

Reviewer: Is this a hardcoded default or a fallback value?

Author: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/pull/1684#discussion_r341045938

Reviewer: It may be good to allow this one to be configurable, since some providers (thinking baremetal) may require longer time to provision.

Author: sounds reasonable to me

Author: wondering weather it'd make more sense to bake this in the CRD or make it a controller parameter.
Different groups of machines coexisting in the same cluster might have different times from creation to node depending on e.g instance type/size which makes it a good candidate for the CRD

> For a node notFound or a failed machine, the machine is considerable unrecoverable, remediation can be triggered right away.

Reviewer: Would this be subject to the short circuiting logic as well or would this be excluded from that?

I'm assuming all the items above would be subject to the short circuiting logic as well.

Author: Yeh, this be subject to the short circuiting logic, rephrased it.

### Remediation:

> - The machine is requested for deletion.

Reviewer: I'm assuming this means sending a deletion request to the API server?

> - The controller owning that machine, e.g machineSet reconciles towards the expected number of replicas and start the process to bring up a new machine/node tuple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The controller owning that `Machine`, e.g machineSet reconciles towards the expected number of replicas and start the process to bring up a new `Machine`.
```

- The machine controller drains the node.

> - The machine controller provider implementation deletes the cloud instance.

Reviewer: This is also done in the machine controller as well (since not all cloud provider integrations have the same behavior for node deletion)

> - The machine controller deletes the machine resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The machine controller removes the finalizer for the `Machine` resource.
```

Reviewer: Or is this referencing deletion of the referenced provider resource?

Author: No, removing the finaliser is more accurate. It's actually reflected in the diagram.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

> - As a user I only care about my apps availability so I want my cluster infrastructure to be self healing and the nodes to be remediated transparently in the case of failures.

Reviewer: Can we better qualify user here? Is this a user of Cluster API or a user of the Workload Cluster?

#### Story 2

> - As a cluster admin I want to define unhealthy criterias as a list of node conditions for targeted pools of machines running particular workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As a cluster admin I want to define unhealthy criteria as a list of node conditions for targeted pools of machines running particular workloads.
```

Reviewer: Please remove the use of pools since it could cause confusion with the `MachinePool` proposal

Reviewer: Is this a Management Cluster admin or a Workload Cluster admin?

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

#### MachineHealthCheck CRD:

> - Enable watching a pool of machines (based on a label selector).

Reviewer: `s/pool/<something else>/`

- Enable defining an unhealthy node criteria (based on a list of node conditions).
- Enable setting a threshold of unhealthy nodes. If the current number is at or above this threshold no further remediation will take place. This can be expressed as an int or as a percentage of the total targets in the pool.

E.g:
- I want my worker machines to be remediated when the backed node has `ready=false` or `ready=Unknown` condition for more than 10m.
- I want remediation to temporary short-circuit if the 40% or more of the targets of this pool are unhealthy at the same time.

```yaml
apiVersion: healthchecking.cluster-api.io/v1alpha3
kind: MachineHealthCheck
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: machine-api
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      role: worker
  unhealthyConditions:
  - type:    "Ready"
    status:  "Unknown"

>     timeout: "300s"

Reviewer: Would the implementation be expected to parse the time? If so, would it make sense to use `5m` here instead?

Reviewer: This value doesn't seem to align with the description above. (5 minutes vs 10 minutes)

  - type:    "Ready"
    status:  "False"
    timeout: "300s"
  maxUnhealthy: "40%"
status:
  currentHealthy: 5

>   expectedMachines: 5

Reviewer: How is `expectedMachines` determined? Would it be better to call this `totalMachines`?

Author: `expectedMachines` is given by `spec.selector`, I'm good with `totalMachines`

```

#### MachineHealthCheck controller:
Watch:
- Watch machineHealthCheck resources
- Watch machines and nodes with an event handler e.g controller runtime `EnqueueRequestsFromMapFunc` which returns machineHealthCheck resources.

Reconcile:

> - Fetch all the machines in the pool and operate over machine/node targets. E.g:

Reviewer: `s/pool/<something else>/`

Considered a more strict short-circuiting mechanisim decoupled from the machine health checker i.e machine disruption budget analogous to pod disruption budget. This was discarded because it added an unjustified level of complexity and additional API resources. Instead we opt for a simpler approach and will consider more concrete feature requests that requires additional complexity based on real use feedback.

## Upgrade Strategy

This is an opt in feature supported by a new CRD and controller so no particular needs to handle upgrades for existing clusters. 

## Additional Details

### Test Plan [optional]

Extensive unit testing for all the cases supported when remediating.

e2e testing as part of the cluster-api e2e test suite.

For failing early testing we could consider a test suite leveraging kubemark as a provider to simulate healthy/unhealthy nodes in a cloud agnostic manner without the need to bring up a real instance.

[testing-guidelines]: https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-testing/testing.md

### Graduation Criteria [optional]

> This should belong to the API level than the other CRDs that compose the cluster-api

Reviewer: I'm not following this statement.

Author: rephrased it
